Oh
good afternoon and welcome to population
health connecting the dots the
complementary webinar from health system
cio.com sponsored by health grid little
housekeeping before we get started my
name is Anthony Guerra I'm the editor in
chief of health system cio.com and I
will be your moderator today
we encourage you to ask questions during
the event you can go ahead type them
into the Q&A box in the lower right hand
corner of your screen
leave the default set to all panelists
send them in as they occur to you I'll
hold on to them and we'll be asking them
later in the program you can download
the deck using the URL on your screen I
sent it out in the chat box and there's
a shortened URL at the bottom of all our
slides and we are recording today's
event and you'll be able to view the
archive we'll post it to our YouTube
channel just as soon as it's ready and
you'll get an email when it's up just so
you see how we're going to spend our
time today we're going to go 45 - I
would say 45 to 50 minutes first we're
going to hear from Ed McAllister SVP and
CIO at UPMC then we're going to hear
from our sponsor represented by drew
Vaughn general manager with health grid
and then we're going to have our Q&A so
without any further delay I'm going to
turn it over to Ed McAlister Edie thanks
for joining us today
thanks Anthony as Anthony said I'm Edie
McAllister senior vice president chief
information officer with UPMC I've been
with UPMC 16 plus years I've been in the
health care industry 25 plus years and I
can tell you that it's both an exciting
and challenging time it's an amazing
opportunity as we move forward in
transforming health care and again being
25 years in the industry I can tell you
there has never been a time like this
before we we actually are at a juncture
where work the move to consumerism and
population help or taking presidents
precedence over benefit plans and some
of the traditional conversations we had
around healthcare and the payer provider
organizations are moving closer together
by the day and before I get started I
just want to share some critical
thoughts and I think must ask for
success when we talked about
nation health and they're critical at
least in the world of it and and that's
where we are today so first the IT
business leaders must be aligned with
the IT organization and the organization
as a whole I see my role as CIO is the
technology leader in my assignment my
main assignment is to enable the UPMC
strategic vision some of which I'll
share with you today next big data
discussion alone is not an extremely
compelling story but it is a great start
and we'll talk a little bit about that
moving forward consumer engagement will
be critical as we transform into a more
retail based healthcare landscaping and
you hear the comparisons of healthcare
and retail more frequently today I think
what that means to me is we don't become
Amazon but rather we recognize the
transformation the retail industry is
made and we take kind of the best
experiences and some of the lessons
learned and we apply it to healthcare to
create a new world and finally as it
pertains to health care cloud technology
is both opportunistic and challenging
and again more to come on this subject
so with this in mind let's get started
so the agenda for today who is UPMC you
may have seen us in some of the national
publications journalist Steve burrows
new book
we're in Time magazine I'll cover a
little bit about who we are again at a
very high level upmc's population health
strategy population health and analytics
and how it ties back to the consumer
what you should prepare for when
considering the move to the cloud and
finally privacy and security
considerations as they surround the
cloud I'm sure that we've all we'll get
into a bit of a cloud discussion and
presentation a bit later but I do think
that there's a absolute necessity to pay
attention to what's happening in that
space so some background on who we are
so UPMC is a 12 billion dollar
integrated Global Health Enterprise
headquartered in Pittsburgh Pennsylvania
we're committed to developing and
delivering life-changing medicine and
are one of the leading health systems in
the United States and I believe we're
the second largest integrated delivery
and finance system in the country behind
Kaiser with over 60,000 employees we're
also the largest non-governmental
employer in Pennsylvania I think we've
surpassed
mark our Health Services Division how
we're structured is as in the four
divisions listed on the slide our Health
Services Division is the is comprised of
more than 20 academic community
hospitals and specialty hospitals in 400
outpatient sites
UPMC employs more than 3600 physicians
within the health services division we
also want to Insurance Services Division
and there are over 2.8 million members
within the Insurance Services Division
125 hospitals and over 11,500 physicians
so if you if you tie the two together
you'll see that you know Kaiser is a
closed model I DFS whereas UPMC the
difference with UPMC is we have the
opportunity to have the closed model
IVFs but we also have our health system
accepts many other payers most other
payers about 99 percent of other players
and our insurance services division
actually has whereas there's 20
hospitals as part of the UPMC enterprise
we have over 125 hospitals so it's an
interesting dynamic when you think about
the integrated model where we're
integrated in some points and we're
larger in the provider space when it
comes to national payers but we're also
larger on the insurance side as far as
our network also of interest we've
created it what I would consider a very
strategic innovative division called
UPMC enterprises which their goal is to
pursue commercial opportunities and
develop strategic partnerships with
industry leaders I partner closely with
the enterprise team their leadership
team and the way we think about is if
there's the need for technology
solutions across the contour it within
UPMC then that's probably they need
outside of UPMC and there are
opportunities to spread what we've done
at UPMC across the country through
commercial opportunities and you know we
have Innovation Centers I consider
myself an opportunity Center and our the
president of UPMC enterprises and myself
meet frequently and we determine where
the pain points are and what we can do
in healthcare and finally we also have
an international division where we
export our expertise internationally
we're in more than a dozen other
countries and that that area is
expanding as well so if you think about
UPMC we're here in western Pennsylvania
as a whole but our footprint in western
fat western Pennsylvania is very defined
but we're also doing things that are
very non-traditional and outside of your
traditional health system so as I
mentioned it's important to align our
information services division
strategically across the business units
and and what I recognized on the
previous slide so who we are as in
information services vision at a glance
we have over 1,400 IT professionals
supporting those 60,000 employees that
we support over 100,000 total devices
PCs mobile devices printers over 900
active software applications so it's a
very high number and if you think about
how UPMC has been built it's been
through acquisition mergers and other
activities so we're always aware that
how do we consolidate how do we actually
manage the right footprint of
applications where the redundancies
where can we where could we become
better in that space we manage a
petabyte of online storage in addition
we have 16 petabyte offline and we have
five EMRs which go across our inpatient
outpatient behavioral health settings
and manage two data centers so when
we're talking about population health
you take into account five EMRs a
petabyte of storage 935 apps 20-plus
hospitals 3,600 Doc's 2.8 million
insurance members it adds up to a pretty
good starting point when we when we're
talking about a Big Data discussion and
that's not to mention genomics
self-reported HR a data and data
collected through devices etc so
hopefully that provides some background
on who we are and how we were aligned so
as I mentioned it's important to the one
or information services division but at
the same time we want to recognize the
challenges around health care reform and
the broader movement toward value-based
care and the need that that's created is
an organization to develop new
competencies that traditionally if you
think traditionally what health systems
have focused on there
not part of part of our business models
I believe that UPMC because of the
background that I just described is very
well positioned and demonstrated the
ability to enhance the health of
individuals you know as well as the
overall well-being of the region through
the IGFs model and knowing that the IBF
model is an IVFs model isn't necessarily
the Silver Bullet or have all be all but
I think you know as we get into the
presentation I think you'll see the
benefits of having the payer and
provider side very closely aligned which
will enable population health strategies
and it's not without challenges of
course and one glaring challenge is if
you I'll just I'll just use the example
of urban versus rural which are very
different populations and challenges so
on the rural side you know if you think
about 20% 23% of u.s. population lives
in rural areas and nearly 20% of the
rural population population is over 65
years old it creates it actually creates
some unique challenges to the rural
population versus the urban population
which on the urban side were more likely
to see large disparities and
socioeconomic status higher rates of
crime violence
we know that persons of lower
socioeconomic status and minority
populations are more likely to live in
urban areas
therefore traditionally they are more
likely to lack health insurance as well
so the result of these populations face
barriers to care they receive poor
quality of care and disproportionate use
of the ers and I don't think we're
unique in seeing the ER activities
around the the more urban population so
how do we address these and many other
issues facing us today
you know as I mentioned earlier as a
mature IDF s we have a deep holistic
understanding of what it takes to
provide and pay for care at the end of
the day if you think about there's only
one dollar to spend and how that dollar
is spent is where I believe we're having
all of the pieces to the puzzle or you
know as the presentation stays many of
the dots that need to be connected it
results in the ability to create a
different model of care so our strategy
and how we've been able to leverage the
benefits of being both payer and
provider has been to create a very broad
data rich horizontal record for our
entire population so if you think about
if you think about what that means I've
covered a lot of the different systems
the different landscape within UPMC we
have an opportunity with our data
sources
traditionally payers have been ahead of
the curve when it comes to data
warehousing because they're dealing in a
very very much a structured data world
when you get into unstructured data
which it resides more on the clinical
side it becomes a different challenge so
I think as as CIO of UPMC within the
UPMC organization it's it's a challenge
but it's also a great opportunity to
leverage what we've done on the payer
side in the data warehousing space and
how we create a federated model to reach
over to the provider side as well and
and tie the data together to create this
horizontal record that it doesn't
necessarily go very deep but it's
extremely broad so I'll talk about what
that means when we get to the to the
deeper analytics discussion but I think
as a starting point we know a lot we
know a little about a lot of people and
that horizontal record is the starting
point for us
so upmc's approach to population health
UPMC we put the consumer of health care
in the middle and leverage the trust
between patient provider during the
engagement what I mean by that is
although payers have been in the
population management space for a while
and I'll include us as a payer I think
we do an excellent job within our
insurance services division we've scored
very low the insurance industry is
scored very low on the trust meter
whereas the relationship with the
clinician rates very high in trust so
what we've tried to do with that UPMC is
take the great work that's been done on
the analytic side through
population health through understanding
the consumer needs and through payer
payer provider collaboration creating
the story so that the provider who is
the trusted source for the for the
person can be the deliverer of the
message and you put the provider in the
middle with the patient and what that
creates is the right engagement one
point of contact multiple outreach
methods matched to that specific member
in an inbox five on the slide you'll see
the aligned network and when I say the
aligned network it's really our care
team including pharmacy some of the some
of the strategic relationships we have
with the caregivers along with our great
cast of provider as well so population
health and analytics our approach relies
on Big Data I mentioned earlier that
it's really not the story I think that
we do a great job Big Data is one of
those terms that I think is bantered
around and and different people have
different ideas as to what Big Data
means to them I think that UPMC has the
opportunity and we've taken great
strides to to create a Big Data
environment but Big Data alone is just
one part of I think what I'd call the
three-legged stool and it's really tying
the enterprise data warehouse and the
technology team in with our data
governance team which we've actually
built out at UPMC and they've been
recognized they've been recognized
nationally for awards and how we do data
governance and then the third leg of the
stool would be the analytics team we on
the clinical side again it were at
different phases in the process but the
enterprise analytics initiative is born
to tie them together as we move forward
on the clinical data warehousing
initiative you have the enterprise data
warehouse you have the data governance
team and then our vice president of
clinical analytics which is a newly
formed position
tied together and together I think
that's where the power comes from so
we've actually at UPMC invested heavily
in all of these areas for example we're
in the we're in about the third year of
a five-year 100 million dollar
enterprise analytics initiative as we
continue in
year three we've been able to refine the
process build the foundation for success
through the partnership of those three
wrap the UPMC strategic vision and the
outstanding clinical minds into the mix
and I think it creates a great
foundation for for great population
health strategies so this slide it just
gives some unique enablers at the bottom
of the screen and some of the different
data sources and and what you can do
with the different data sources so again
it ties back to Big Data alone doesn't
really matter but if you align the data
with what you're trying to do and some
of the activities around what you're
trying to provide I think that's that's
the real story so that the bottom box
which which represents the data in the
middle as far as the green boxes which
represent the activities or nothing
without the health economics analytics
team that sits above and some on our on
our health plan side when I talk about
our investment in analytics we have a
twenty eight person team of medical
statisticians epidemiologists and and
very generally very smart people that
can take the information and make it
more meaningful than it is as you know
standalone data I'll give you an example
of why I like to slide our chief
analytics officer with the Insurance
Services Division used to tell the story
and have to use a different slide and
there was a coal miner at the bottom
left of the slide and it looked a lot
like me and at the top right-hand corner
of the slide there was a diamond and a
person that looked a lot like her and
the story was that she took information
he took a you know the coal and
transformed it into a diamond so I I
like my slide much better but you get
the idea of what we're able to do
together how you start with the
foundation of data you know run it
through some some of the very detailed
deep analytics
models and and and have that the brain
sitting above the pyramid
so I talked about how UPMC is unique as
an integrated delivery system and and
once you're able to create that data
platform and develop the strong
governance around the data combined with
our brilliant clinicians and their
vision of patient care because that
that's that's kind of a secret sauce
that many leave out of the mix I think
you if you separate Technology Analytics
and these other IT technology strategies
away from the real story which is which
is what UPMC excels in excellence in
care you add in the equation that depth
of knowledge and experience that our
health plan brings to population health
and and again we're very well positioned
to impact our stakeholders you see the
payers at the bottom of the slide again
you you know if I'm Ed McAlister I could
be at any given time and Aetna member or
a signaler UPMC health plan member which
would be my preference by the way and
and and I could bounce around the
clinicians but that's the data and you
have your advanced analytics on the
right hand of the screen you're creating
a federated experience across all of the
environments that becomes a very
personal experience and what that means
is it shouldn't matter you shouldn't
start from the beginning just because
you move other payers or to a new doc
but rather capture that information in
the cloud that surrounds the individual
and keep that patient slash consumer in
the middle of everything we do and how
we think about it so in as an aside I
don't want to get too deep into a
consumer discussion but how you interact
with that person should be driven by
that person so it's a different it's a
different meeting and I think it would
probably be another half hour but true
success is really allowing the consumer
to define what a great consumer
experience is and tying that information
into a great consumer experience is what
we try to do so population health in a
consumer again you put the consumer in
the middle you see the cost quality
access grid is just different word
living by different words but it's all
driven through analytics I think that if
you start with a story of the data our
analytics executives
about it often you know you don't really
tell the story that you want to tell and
try to find the data but rather have the
data tell the story and I think this
slide is actually a good one to show how
it fits together the analytics
wraparound and what the benefits of this
approach are as well so now we have the
data we've touched on the analytics and
and how we're tying the pieces together
using the great clinical minds and in
order to manage this obviously it
doesn't happen magically and there are
databases that we just you know the data
automatically appears from we have the
analytics so about 2007 we looked for a
platform that could potentially you know
manage this information some of the
great work in the analytics world we
just couldn't find one they were all
very disease centric so we moved to
developing a platform called health
planet which is custom design member
focused when we were looking it was very
disease centric so as Edie McAllister if
I had three conditions I was in three
different databases there were actually
three out outreach methodologies around
me and it became very confusing to the
consumer so we developed this health
planet platform would it allows for is a
very strong workflow engine and
integration with all of our hospitals
physician offices and it extends and it
ties it bridges the gap between payer
and provider so this is the the network
that I mentioned earlier as far as the
how we try to tie the experience
together so Mary in the center of the
diagram regardless of her care or herb
condition she has the right people that
she's interacting with and it's not a
matter of it's not a matter of met
multiple outreaches so you see the globe
around Mary we know the right person
through the workflow engine and how we
want to reach out to that person so
basically the health planet platform
aligns this team on a common technology
platform powerful workflow engine and
what this does is it allows our UPMC
care team to manage and improve the
health across the full spectrum of
populations if you think about it both
at the individual and group levels
allowing for bi-directional data
exchanges and again I'll show them the
next slide how that works
and a consumption evaded its source
ability to assign the tasks and such so
this is this is probably the best slide
to get a clearer clearer picture of how
the information flows in a
bi-directional way so you start with the
many data sources at the bottom your
layer of the analytics engine workflow
their analytics engine on top of it and
it creates the workflow feeds into the
workflow engine and assigns the the
right care at the right time because it
is very member centric and and also it's
a learning model so as we learn more
about the consumer it feeds back through
the analytics engine and into the
appropriate databases and again the
result each member receives a unique
personalized quality driven experience
it's part of a comprehensive population
health approach every slide that you'll
see as the consumer in the in the center
I think that that's you know that's a
key to what we're trying to do it can't
be a disjointed experience or you lose
confidence there's two pieces to the
population health piece obviously is
what we do what we do as a health system
and a health care organization around
population health but again without
forgetting that it's the consumer that
matters through the process
you may have heard of the Pittsburgh
health data Alliance the and again you
could read some of the quotes but really
in addition to all of the other things
we've engaged with UPMC UPMC Carnegie
Mellon and pit and we have an initiative
called the pittsburgh health data
alliance and when you combine pit with
its expertise and excellent track record
in research and carnegie mellon who's
recognized basically as a world-class
computer science and machine learning
institution and the brilliant minds
technology data resources within UPMC I
believe will accelerate the goals that
encompass all that we've talked about
related to population health and it'll
allow us to be more exact and precise in
in creating solutions moving into the
future and this initiative is being led
by our UPMC enterprises team that I
mentioned earlier I expect I truly
expected their amazing solutions to be
borne out of this partnership and I
personally believe that this partnership
will transform healthcare very exciting
times so the move to the cloud and I'll
touch on these because it it's really I
think important to understand you know
if you really want to get into a great
technology debate the clouds the place
to be so in a recent publication Tony
Scott who is the US federal government
CIO said the big cloud providers are
just as secure as today's largest
finance financial institutions and
advises his fellow IT leaders to embrace
cloud sooner rather than later well I
read the comments to follow the article
and they were probably split down the
middle bottom line is there's absolute
value in cloud technology and move to
the cloud in some form which we at UPMC
have embraced we our strategy is to move
many of the commodity services to the
cloud so that we can invest in the more
strategic initiatives example we're
moving to office 365 with Microsoft and
in addition to the in addition to the
efficiencies gained through or the cost
efficiencies gained through the move to
the cloud it's actually the functional
efficiencies that are more interesting
and
we're excited about so there's again
bring up the cloud to some of your IT
colleagues I think you'll hear the
latest article they read and that'll be
there that'll be the opinion I believe
so if you walk through pros and cons of
what we could do or couldn't do like
scalability and the more current term is
elasticity you know its ability to flex
up and down how do we want to do it so
the pros the cloud gives you much more
flexibility and a much more nimble
approach I won't read the rest to you
but those are the what I'd see is that
is the major pros on the con sign the
first one costly it's only costly if
preexisting investments are taken into
account so if you're if you're rolling
out new solutions to the cloud I'd argue
that they're actually more cost
effective so again pros and cons I think
that they could apply accurately to your
organization's but I think in general
they kind of capture what the general
thinking is we can't do a presentation
without privacy and security I what I've
seen is at least compared to other
industries Healthcare has been slow to
adopt a move to the cloud mainly do the
sensitive and private nature of
healthcare data as we know we all know
that we read that pH pH is much more
valuable than credit card data on the
black market increasing risk of data
breaches healthcare has been slow to
adopt to the cloud because of these
reasons and and I have a few examples
listed on the slide but quite frankly
they could be any of us I mean they
could be anybody so I think what you
have to know in this space it's no
different then the way we address
security in a in a in a more traditional
way I think that I think that it's
important not to get too hung up on
security in the cloud because again when
you're in that debate with your fellow
IT colleagues I could support in some
fashion that that cloud security is I
wouldn't argue with our with what the
statement that I made earlier but for
mr. Scott so if we talk about privacy
and security and and while we've been
slow to adopt the cloud I think
statistics show and I'm certainly in
this camp
pace is going to rapidly increase
however what we should which shouldn't
happen actually is without continued
increase in investing in security as we
have done today you know so I listed
some areas you know data secured secured
data transfers interfaces secure data
storage user access controls and data
separation but I you know that said you
know this should be it shouldn't be new
as we managed today security concerns
both on and off premise and you know
along with the controls that I mention
at some of the areas that we're focused
in our user education and awareness on
the list of much to give you an example
we're doing phishing simulus simpson
civilizations and of the trouble
phishing exercises as related to our
employee population so we started with
the IT organization and and we had some
fishing exercises where we where we put
our own employees through it through the
exercise of some malware like emails
that we sent and there was a high too
high a percentage of people that fell
for it as part of IT organization so
we're rolling that out across the entire
company it's relatively inexpensive and
extremely extremely effective I think so
in summary just some bullets I think
population health relies on access to
big data but not big data alone
UPMC we're developing a federated data
warehouse to enable the comprehensive
data analytics enterprises as we talked
about and with that we'll build on to
our population health strategies and
with the rise of consumerism health care
is becoming more patient-centered and
data-driven and I believe technology
will enable this transition and the
cloud is a great enabler of consumer
experience when it comes to data and
user experience and we shouldn't get
hung up on the uncertainty and the
unknown of it and although there are
there are some risks I think that in
this world we're facing risks every day
it's just another and it's not
necessarily the risk but how we address
the risk and prepare for it and finally
ensure a strong focus on security when
considering the
cloud so I went with my friend Albert
and says you know we cannot solve our
problems with the same thinking we used
when we created them I can tell you that
technology is moving at a speed that I
personally have never experienced and
you know while making a strong effort to
keep up is great I think it will all be
judged by our results and again I opened
the presentation the fact that it's a
very challenging yet exciting time and I
think you know as you walk through the
opportunities we have within not only
the healthcare industry mainly the
healthcare industry but from a
technology vantage point now it applies
to the healthcare industry I think that
the sky's the limit and we've only
scratched the surface so with that I'll
close and thank you very much for
joining me on the webinar today and I
believe we'll have questions at the end
right Anthony
yep yep that's right well thank you very
much ed great presentation and we're
looking forward to your Q&A in a few
minutes first we're going to hear from
our sponsor represented by Dhruv on
general manager with health grid so drew
thanks for joining us thanks for
sponsoring today thanks Anthony
yeah first and foremost congratulations
to ed UPMC has always been a clear
thought leader in the industry and a lot
of great content in the deck today
second all thanks to Health Systems the
icao for the opportunity to sponsor the
event couple quick words about health
grid health grid is working to really
transform the way as ed was alluding to
that that health systems interact and
activate their patients in their care
we've really created and worked to
create a mobile CRM platform a patient
engagement platform if you will that
leverages cloud-based push web solutions
to provide very simple actionable
campaigns to many of our health system
clients which really work to engage
patients across any device anytime
anywhere and we do that through a number
of ambulatory as well as acute care and
postage
CAIR workflows from a mobile perspective
we know that the healthcare industry is
transforming at a crazy speed
you know the adoption of mobile phones
provides us a great opportunity to
activate engage with our patients like
never before just about every patient
today 89% of patients today have a
mobile device that they carry with them
everywhere that they go in addition to
that not only do they have mobile phones
and smartphones now but we're seeing
that responses to messages directly to
their phones far surpass the ability to
contact them through phone call outreach
and even through email or the patient
portal or downloading applications to
their own device on so by leveraging the
power of mobile leveraging the power of
text messaging we really have a great
opportunity to connect with our patients
in a very convenient way to them in
addition to that in conjunction with
that I should say we've seen that SMS
technology is actually the optimal
compliance platform for at-risk
populations both low-income groups
responded to SMS text messages more
often than any other medium in addition
low education levels send and receive
more text messages per day than any
other demographic sort of really see the
opportunity as we're trying to control
cost as many stakeholders across the
system the optimal way to work to engage
patients what we've put together here at
health grid is really a platform that's
focused on delivering a world-class
patient experience in conjunction with
helping our systems March to their
business drivers and the value drivers
that reduce costs across their own
operational organizations etc the way
that we've really architected our
solution is we put together really a
comprehensive care continuum platform
that starts with a simple outreach to a
patient as an example in an ambulatory
setting for an outstanding service that
they may be due for based on their
condition and through that process we
continue to engage and activate
patience at many touch points within
where they are in their care journey so
as an example as I'm the strength
displaying on the screen here we may
send an initial text message to activate
the patient in conjunction with that we
actually can check them in and allow
them to check in on their own devices we
provide them with a pre-service
education so that they can actually
prepare for their visit with their
providers or the services that they're
coming in for in conjunction with that
we provide them with a number of
opportunities to engage with their
family members etc at the point of care
by providing up-to-date alerts and then
most importantly post care we're
providing them with discharge
instructions via their mobile phone
educational content related to their
meds and their problems and performing
very specific follow-up based on the
care plans that the providers have set
for them to really make sure that we're
driving value to patients keeping them
connected but at the same time driving
value to our customers who are health
systems um the way that we've
architected our solution we've really
put together these multiple experiences
or these multiple use cases for the
patient into very specific modules pre
care point of care and post care and we
have the ability to do anything from gap
and care outreach real-time appointment
scheduling to mobile check-in all the
way through to very specific patient
family notifications discharge
preparation and last but not least post
care as I was alluding to ensuring that
they're connected to their downstream
providers to referral management
solutions and in providing them with the
key information that they need post care
to ensure adherence to their care plans
we we've uh we found that again kind of
touching on some of the statements I
mentioned earlier the most easy way for
a patient to engage is to have
information pushed to them in the right
time in the right place in the context
of where they are in their care journey
and so the patient through our system
does not need to download an application
and do not need to do anything they
receive text messages
from their care providers and from the
system at specific points in time or
they're able to actually click on a link
on their mobile phone authenticate using
their last name and data birds and
basically once they've done that process
they would basically land on any of the
campaigns or use cases that I was
alluding to so very secure platform to
two-factor authentication we're not only
ensuring that that specific link is sent
to that specific cell phone but we're
also providing the ability for that
patient to authenticate with who they
are to see the appropriate campaign that
the the health system wants to execute
so that's essentially how our platform
works at a very high level we work with
a number of health systems across the
country CH SH D in Tennant and are very
excited to be bringing this mobile CRM
solution to market to help transform the
ones I mentioned earlier to help
transform the way how systems really
connect and engage with their patients
so that's a little bit about health grid
and here we are Anthony I'll go ahead
and turn it over back to you
I'm very good drew well thank you again
for sponsoring and thanks for delivering
that message so now we have time for a
Q&A so as I mentioned go ahead and send
in your questions in the Q&A box leave
the default set to all panelists and I
will take a look at those and pose them
to our speakers that first thing I want
to come to you I'd like you to talk a
little bit about the model that you've
got as a health system where you
described it as an ID FS but it's not
the same as Kaiser so they're kind of
close then you're closed but open talk
to me about that unique model where
you're you've got your own you're
ensuring populations but you're also
seeing patients that are insured by
private payers does that make your work
in population help a little more
complicated or does it give you more
opportunities to do different things
I view it as an opportunity to do
different things if you think about this
so you have different sources so it's
not all one size fits all so we can do
some analytics around what does it look
like when the person's a health plan
member but not a UPMC patient what's it
look like when a person is a UPMC
patient and not a health plan members so
I think the dynamics and the the
different lenses from which you view the
population are more dynamic and
therefore I think again the data tells a
different story than it would tell if
you were a member of the health plan and
health system not that that's not
powerful data Anthony but but I think
that it's a different dynamic when you
don't have it all in one bucket but
rather you have that horizontal record
that I mentioned earlier and you know
you know a little about a lot of people
versus a lot about the same group of
people mm-hmm let's talk a little bit
about compliance because that's the core
of everything we're doing here with the
move to value-based care and population
health we need to get patients to take
on healthier behaviors and to be
committed to following what they're
supposed to be doing from a medication
point of view and these type of things
and the health grid is one platform that
allows people to engage patients to get
them to do these things
edie where where how far does this go
how far can you go into the patient's
life you know you work about economic
economic incentives so you've got these
engagement you got incentives and then
you know you hit socio socio-economic
issues how far do we go to incentivize
this behavior that we need is health
systems to be financially successful so
so I think it's a great question I think
it varies by population I think that's
where the stratification comes into play
so we stratify our entire population and
we have them in buckets of you know who
you know who's ready to change and in
the different phases of change I mean
drew you know brought the point this one
slide where they have a pre care point
of care post care model but you know how
do you get to the how do you get to the
pre care for somebody that doesn't
recognize that they even need care right
so I'll give you an example of what
we're doing at UPMC I mentioned it where
it's good because we're kind of a living
laboratory we have the pieces so I'll
use our 60,000 employee population as an
example we have UPMC health plan as our
payer and we have a program within the
health plan and the wellness division
called take a healthy step and the UPMC
health plan works with UPMC as an
employer group in a certain way and
we've been able to attain in the high
90s 93 94 95 percent compliance with
what's taking a healthy step to change
your behavior the point you bring up
earlier there was a good one how you
know how far do you go I think that you
know when drew brought that point up
pushed to the consumer I think that you
need to engage the consumer at the point
of which the consumer wants to be
engaged it's definitely not a one size
fits all for instance if text message is
your preference you communicate with
that that consumer the population
through text messaging but if they're if
they're used to a telephone and and
that's the best way to reach them you
can't be afraid of old technology either
so I think it's aligning the population
with the opportunities that we have
through technology to change behavior
knowing that you know we're not going to
change necessarily 100% of the
population overnight but as long as
we're moving in that direction I think
it's the right model could you see this
getting to the point where you're
responsible for a geographic population
and what they need are certain things in
the community to melech to you know you
talk about socio-economic things you get
into politics here what they need are
certain things in the community
resources that enable them to become a
healthier group of people it could be
supermarkets or different care centers
or things like that I mean eventually if
you're on on the hook for the health of
this population it may you may have to
go outside the box and get them more
into the political realm is that what
is all going well I'm not sure about the
political realm but I think that's what
that's the model of a cos and what it
means in working with the provider
community and providers going at risk
for a certain population the reembarked
the reimbursement models just been
flipped on its side if you go back you
know a short and there's still a lot of
fee-for-service even in this region but
if you go back just a short period of
time we were the model was more to be
paid for widget production so if you're
paid for wicked production you're going
to create a lot of widgets and a lot of
revenue I think with the CMS
reimbursement changes I think that's
what's going to actually drive it I
think that the partnership and and
having the providers kind of take
control of the population I mentioned on
the one slide that they're the trusted
source when it comes to changing
behavior and communicating you know
what's best for the patient I think as
we get more into that model as the
reimbursement rules change and more and
more I think that's what's going to do
it obviously we're very involved in the
community and it's important you know
the politicians obviously you know they
have a very strong voice in some of the
communities but I think we've worked
well with them in that space today not
it would continue it okay great um next
question
what is the role for a you what kind of
people do you need to throw behind this
so we talk about a lot of case managers
give give the folks who are listening
some idea of the human factor versus the
technology factor obviously the
technology is what's going to scale but
there's a certain amount of individuals
that you need managing this population
health and sort of driving these
technologies toward these people how
many thoughts on that that's so I think
the vision has to start at the top and
here UPMC it does and we've been through
recent restructuring where we flattened
the organization in a way where the
hospital division in the physician
division became the Health Services
Division so I think a flattening of the
organization our leadership at the
levels of the slide that I shared
is our alignment with Health Services
Division Insurance Services Division
International and in our enterprise's
division they are they are in lockstep
so that's where it starts I think and
from there you build teams and they
can't be team siloed when within each of
those divisions so they're really
cross-functional teams where you know
one of the most important meetings that
take place here at UPMC today or the
payer provider meetings where you have
executives from both sides at the table
and talking about how to how do we do
this so I think it's when you talk about
the people I'd go on for for you know
hours talking about the different skill
sets I mentioned our health economics
group very talented group of people our
IT team is extremely talented our
clinical minds that we have here are
fantastic but alone they're not nearly
as powerful as they are when we take our
our senior team gets together and they
create these teams of people that
traditionally may have resided on the
payer side or traditionally on the
hospital or physician side but instead
create a new team for the new problems
that we're trying to solve mm-hmm let's
talk a little bit about your central
data warehouse is this and we've we've
done some events where we've talked to
people about data management data
warehousing are you a Hadoop fan that's
way out of my depth but I know that's
been touted as something that's very
effective
I'll tell you we were not we're vendor
agnostic and product is not agnostic
it's what works it whatever works we
absolutely are are tied in and we
actually do have the we actually do use
to do but but again that's that's one
you know that's one Avenue I think when
I mentioned the five-year 100 million
dollar investment we have within
enterprise analytics and in with and I
tried to make the point but what's
critical is to understand we call it
enterprise analytics there are so many
components to that and you don't start
with the analytics but but rather the
data and that's where they're the dupes
and they you know some of the other
would start rattling off all the vendor
on run
but that's where I think you start with
the problem and then the solutions and
vendor solutions that are out there I
think you you apply them to the problem
you're trying to solve versus being the
proverbial band-aid looking for a cut
which we would be if we start it with
the with the technology very good
excellent well at I think that it's
about all we had time for today I want
to thank you so much for joining us and
delivering the the great presentation I
want to thank our sponsor represented by
drew Vaughn that would be health grid
for making today's event possible as I
mentioned you'll receive an email when
our archived recording has been posted
to our YouTube channel there's a
shortened URL of our YouTube channel
we'll get that up within the next
business day or so for those of you who
have the charm CHCO certification are
attending our webinars gets you one CEU
so go ahead and let chime know if you've
attended and if you've asked us to let
John know we will sponsorship
opportunities you can contact Nancy
Wilcox questions and comments you can
reach me and you can go to our website
to your upcoming schedule so again I
want to thank Eddie drew and health grid
and everybody have a wonderful day